I also let's understand this problem.
It's very interesting problem from cold forces and this is from educational round 73.
And the problem is deep pain and a very interesting problem that I always like this problem and I always
use it for educational purposes.
So.
You have a fence consisting of and vertical boards.
So feel free to posit and trade yourself and then you can always come back.
So you have a friend.
You have a fence consisting of any vertical board.
The weight of each board is one.
The height of the board is borders.
You think the defense is great if there is no pair of adjusting boards having the same height?
I'd be more formally.
The fence is great if and only if for all indices from to do in the condition it not equal to a minus
one also.
Unfortunately, it is possible that no fences not great.
But you can change it.
You can increase the length of the Iot world by one.
But you have to pay a ruble for it.
So basically, for any Iot fence, what I can do is for any Iot board, what I can do is I can increase
its length by one, by being by rubles.
If I want to increase its length by two, that means I have to pay by.
Plus by just doing the bidding.
If I want to increase its land by three, then I have to pay rent to be a rubles eight.
The length of the each board can be increased any number of times, possibly zero.
They calculate the minimum number of rubles you have to spend to make defense great again.
Eight.
So that means.
But what we have is initially.
We have some boots, they have some height.
I can increase and decrease the rate so they know too.
I just in boots have the same height.
And secondly, there's a cost of increasing the rates.
So I have to find out the minimum cost in such a way I increase and decrease the rate so that finally
the minimum number of rubles I spend it.
So you have to answer the Q independent queries rate.
I q queries I have rn and what each end lines I have.
NBA is nothing with the land of the board right now.
NBA is nothing but the cost of increasing the board by one eight.
So it is going to do to the answer will not increase and it's very routine.
So I just have to take intense, long, long wait.
And it was all my problem.
And for each query print one integer dominion number of rubles you have to spend to make the friends
great a.
So let me go over the first example, a.
The first example is to.
To.
The 2 to 3 is the end of the trade.
I'm just taking things vertically so that don't understand.
And the second is 415.
So this is eight and this is V eight.
Now here you can see that 2 to 3 is not a good fence because we went to our decision.
So what I can do is I can increase the land of this two by one.
But then I have to increase the land of this tree by one again.
Let's see.
I increase this land of two by one, 2 to 3, three.
And what will the cost?
The cost will be one.
Now, again, I have to increase the land of this next city.
Or again, there can be two possibilities as it increases the length of this tree.
Ordinary resilience of this tree.
If I increase the land of this tree, what I'll get is I get to fourth tree and I spend one more a double
on it.
Or I can do it.
I can say two, three, three and two, three and four, and I spend one favorable on it.
Right.
So here you can see from 2 to 3, 2 to 4, three, the answer, the minimum answer that I can see is
two.
There can be another possibility, which is just to increase the length of this two good tree that will
give me 3 to 3 and the cost will be four three.
What is the meaning of all the goals this is for?
This is to.
And this is why.
So the answer should be to let me check.
Yeah.
So here you can see we have two.
And let's see the second case.
The second cases to the two or to all of them are equal.
And then three and six.
So some of you might be thinking of a greedy approach, like which of them have the lowest numbers?
That means the lowest cost.
Why don't I just increase it?
But guys, you can easily see if you increase it, then.
There are some problems.
The first problem is firstly if it has the lowest Rubel, it does not guarantee me that increasing it
will of course give me the right answer.
What if?
What if the existing ones offered a different rate and even if they are just when offered the same.
For example, see this case.
Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
Or instead of this, let me.
It has to go.
You know, what I believe is that this is a greater talent that means to verify or to contradict your
own solution.
So if you have proposed a solution, try to contradict your own solution, vaunted work.
That's a greater challenge, actually.
It's a greater talent that I think that I think because it's what happens when you give long challenges,
right?
You mean the solution, but that doesn't work.
You're trying.
You try and you tried for days and.
More days and then you summited, right?
So, okay, before moving there, let me just have some.
Instead of this, let's have this.
Five, six, seven, eight.
No, no, you can see it lit.
It is vulnerable.
And this is three rubles to rubles.
Three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
Or instead, let's just say that it is 111, one, one one.
If I.
Yeah.
So the first thing is if I.
Okay, that's it.
This is the.
And this is only one.
Now, if I increase this three by one by delegates, I'll get two votes.
Then I will have to increase one of these two force by one.
Then I immigrate to five, then to six, and so on.
Eight.
So greedy would always not work here.
Because there can be so many cases.
And we have already discussed this.
There are so many cases possible.
That means this is our dynamic programming problem.
And so for the second case, let's see what's done.
So for the second case that you can see.
We have all these tools now.
What what can we do?
Other increase the middle to buy one that will give me two, three, two.
And it's a valid fence and the cost of it is ten or what I can do is increase the first two and the
last two, and this will give me 3 to 3 and the cost will be three plus, which is.
998.
So let's pick.
Yes.
Nine is the minimum cost.
And in the last one, you can see all the fences have the different combinations.
Eight, that is one, three, two.
And this that means it is already a great fence.
I don't have to spend any of it to increase the size of any of the board.
Eight.
So what I would suggest is just pause the video, try to think about it, and then we can discuss it.
Okay.
Yeah, let's discuss it now.
So the first is 2 to 3 and the cost of it is four one, five, eight.
So what I say is I'll see.
Tell me the answer.
That means the minimum cost of variable spend.
If I increase.
The current element by one, two or three eight.
So what I'll do is I see nothing.
But I just see.
Let me quickly you.
So how can you think of a dynamic programming solution in this, first of all?
Okay, so let's say this is zero two index first and second index of 012.
Now, what all possibilities do I have?
I have infinite possibilities of possibilities to increase the size of the board by one or the first
of all.
So it is very simple not to increase it.
That means increase it by zero eight.
So the second possibilities, if I increase the size of this board by one, by two by three, by four
by five, and so until infinity rate, that means in this case, variables will be used in this case
two and to be able to be used in this case three and to be able to be used and so on.
But now what we have to do is we we need to limit this.
We need to limit it because here, if you go deeper into it, if you try deeper into it, what will
realize is that going after three is a waste of time.
Basically, if I say that I want to increase the current numbers, that is the current board size bite
or instability.
If I increased by four, it will never give me a good solution.
Eight Because see.
Two plus zero can be a good solution.
That means I'm not increasing it to plus one.
I can increase it by one because if I increase it by one, it will.
Okay, let me make guesses.
The ultimate thing that we want is what we want is we want it to be different from its left and its
right.
But when will we need when will we need to increase it by one?
We will need to increase it by one.
When this is the case.
Let's say this to two and one.
In this case, if I just increase the second one by one, then it will solve my problem.
I don't need to increase this by two.
Correct.
By increasing by one can only solve a problem.
So when?
So do we need a key is when I need to increase it by two, maybe.
Yes.
We have already seen that case.
It is 2 to 3 and later to Sten.
It is 15 and it is one only.
In this case, if I increase this two by one, I will get to three three and then I can again increase
it by one, two, four, three.
Now two, four, three.
We can easily see that.
Nor do I do things the same.
And the cost as minimum which to.
I did not think about the kids.
When you will be needing to bless tree, that means you will be needing it to increase it by a land
of three.
I just think of a case that the minimum answer is coming by, not increasing by zero or to zero or one
or two eight, but by three.
So you will soon realize I just pause it and think about it.
Just try to make some cases and see.
Will you ever be needing to increase it by three?
No right.
You will never be needing to increase any element but only remain like use zero rubles.
Used by rubles are used to be rubles.
You don't need to.
Go beyond to write the story will never be needed because I made the case it was zero and one I don't
have a basis for needing it increased by three.
Ultimately watching the game is not easy, but very simple that it should be different from the live
and it should be different from the raid.
Eight So some of you might be thinking that, okay, maybe this is the case where you can be increased
by one three and it can be increased, but when it is just four and then it can be increased by one,
it is just five because three is here for this year and we need it to reach two five to make it different.
But why do we want to increase two in this case?
Because here you can see it is already different from the.
Right.
One's eight.
That means a two is different from four into a different room.
I mean, it is already on.
It is already a good fence.
But we don't.
Actually need to increase the fences, by the way.
So what I've done is I have just taken a.
Let me.
It is a little bit.
I've just taken this.
I just took this.
It's already been eight.
But what I say is I simply say nothing.
But I simply say I repeat, I committee and I see that.
Tell me what's the best answer or the minimum rubles used to correct?
Correct.
First I would.
And increasing.
The current.
Increasing the current board budget.
Followed by day eight.
And believe me or not, this is the same problem as the problem we have already done, which is the
pain dose problem.
Let me let me try to connect it to the pre and post problem so that you can solve it yourself.
I look to the cases to do three.
Now we know we cannot increase this to buy zero accumulated plus zero plus one or plus two.
So plus zero will be two only plus one it will be three and plus two will be put.
Same for this two, three, four and for this for delegate are three, four and five.
Correct.
So now what I have is independent this problem.
You must have related articles at RG or B I can be in the house with odd g, r b basically if I take
this, I cannot take this, but I can take this.
Eight basically consecutive elements cannot be same.
I just have to take the best answer of that element, which is Nazim.
And the second one is the cost.
Towards the cost of increasing by zero one and two.
So what's the cost?
If I take the state, it is zero.
So for the state the cost is zero because I'm not incrementing them.
Or the second state.
What is the cost?
The cost is four one in five.
But if I take this data, this forward, if I take this data, this one, and if I take this trade,
it is five.
And finally, what is the cost of increasing it by doing this?
Nothing but four into two, one into two and five into two.
Which is.
Okay.
So I'm just trying to relate it to the house, the painters problem, so that you can realize that it's
not it's exactly the same problem.
I know what I need to do is I need to find some sequence of this.
That's.
That the.
Lost in that sequence is minimum.
Exactly same as the windows from eight.
And the second thing is the cost should be minimum here, of course.
But the second thing is no to a decent element can be.
So in this case, I cannot take two, three, three, eight.
In this case, I can take two, three.
But which is not in zero one and five, and this will give me six eight.
The second case can be if I just.
The second option can be this.
There is this to this, which is two for three, which will give me a sum of zero plus two +08.
So this is exactly the same problem as the Windows problem, and I'm not coding it.
I leave the code to you.
And the first thing and this too was raised that it's a dynamic programming problem.
This was the most important aspect of the problem, right?
It is a running programming problem and it requires rotating programming solution.
Second aspect was that, of course, infinite students are possible, but what's my optimal substructure?
Eight.
More than optimal state aid to the optimal states are nothing but plus zero, plus one or plus two.
That will give me the best answers to of course I can take plus three.
I can also add one more here and you know, you get out these solutions.
Eight We can figure out the solution by taking one, moreover, making them two plus three.
But that will never give me the best answer.
That means I'm just redundantly calculating something that will be just a waste of time and memory.
One you can take plus three.
But that answer would just can only come from plus zero plus one industrial well, so just go for this
and try to submit it on the phone first and see if you are doing something wrong.
I provided the solution.
Thanks.